---
layout: post
title:  "Pivot!"
date:   2017-02-19 22:35:11 +0000
categories: interaction design
---

This week we had a guest lecturer, Rob Phillips, who spoke to us about product design. We slightly pivoted with our product this week, instead of just making this a tool to deliver information to the public, we want to open it up to charities and other organisations by allowing anyone to incorporate their own data sets and api’s into the tool so they can have visualisations and correlations between any data set.

Some of our research supporting the choices we’re making in this assignment includes data visualisation. We wanted to make sure that using data visualisations to display the data would be an effective and efficient manner of delivering information to the user rather than just a pretty placeholder image that some designers are using it as. In order to make sure we were on the right track, I read a fantastic article by [Christine McLaren](https://www.guggenheim.org/blogs/lablog/data-visualization-its-pretty-but-is-it-useful) about its usefulness and how to make sure it’s a tool and not a design. With the explosion of infographics lately, the goal is the visualisation itself, it’s illustrating a point and that’s where its function ends. They’re all about convincing people of things and about communication, we need to make sure our visualisation of the data sets isn’t just a literal translation of the textual narrative, we need to make sure people are able to *explore* the visualisation and analyse the data; thus making it a tool. To do this, the visualisation needs to be delivered with the data set, allowing users to take that data and manipulate it further, to further explore. to further this, we also want to allow the users to add more data sets to our product to allow for further examination to see any potential correlations between say homelessness and the number of debates in any given constituency. Allowing this makes endless possibilities for what the public want to do with this public information, thus empowering them IDK. This is one of the big differences between the infographics sections of, say, The New York Times, the Texas Tribune, or any number of other publications that have recently developed a focus on data visualisation, and the Guardian’s Data Blog, for instance. The Times may do a stunning and powerful analysis of New York’s shifting geographic distribution of ethnicities and prove the point that, say, black populations are getting pushed to the city outskirts and being replaced by whites. But if somebody wants to overlay that map with another type of data to explore a different aspect or consequence of that shift, or even perhaps dispute it by suggesting the mapmaker has ignored an essential outlier, they cannot do that, because the data is not provided along with the graphic. It is a one-way conversation. On Data Blog, on the other hand, every graphic is accompanied by the downloadable data set that went into creating it, thus offering the opportunity for a more collective discussion. We want our users to ask the question ‘what’s next?’ rather than see the result of the data set and be stuck with ‘so what?’.


TALK ABOUT CODING DUDE ON YOUTUBE, JDAWG.
